New web site blog post (#259)
root-project/web: _posts/2020-06-22-new-web-site.md

---
title:  "New ROOT Web Site !"
layout: archive
author: Olivier Couet
---

> If you are reading this blog post it means you are surfing on the New ROOT Web Site !

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are reading this blog post it means you are surfing on the New ROOT Web Site!
```

> If you are reading this blog post it means you are surfing on the New ROOT Web Site !

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are reading this blog post it means you are surfing on the New ROOT Web Site!
```

> This new web site is a complete redesigned both on the the content point of view and on the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This new web site is a complete redesign, both from the content point of view and the
```

> This new web site is a complete redesigned both on the the content point of view and on the

Reviewer: Double "the"

Reviewer: Double double the, actually:
```suggestion
This new web site is a complete redesigned both on the content point of view and on
```

the technology used to build it.

> Regarding the later we are now using the [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com) system. Jekyll is a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Regarding the latter we are now using the [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com) system. Jekyll is a
```

> Regarding the later we are now using the [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com) system. Jekyll is a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regarding the latter we are now using the [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com) system. Jekyll is a
```

> Regarding the later we are now using the [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com) system. Jekyll is a
> simple, blog-aware, static site generator for personal, project, or organization sites.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are now using [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com) to generate static web pages. With Jekyll
we can version-control our web pages; the workflow is very similar to that of ROOT's source,
making it ideal for the ROOT team.
```

> Written in Ruby by Tom Preston-Werner, GitHub's co-founder, it is distributed under the

Reviewer: You seem to have copied this from Wikipedia. That's not nice - either reword or create a reference to signal where this is taken from.

open source MIT license. The main advantages are:

>   - As it is closely linked to Github, ROOT users and developpers can make Pull Request

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - As it is closely linked to GitHub, ROOT users and developers can make Pull Requests
```

>     on it as one would do on the ROOT code. It makes the changes must easier !

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    on it as one would do for code. It makes changes much easier!
```

>     on it as one would do on the ROOT code. It makes the changes must easier !

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    on it as one would do on the ROOT code. It makes changes much easier!
```

>   - The look and feel of the web site in "theme based". We choose the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The look and feel of the web site is "theme based". We chose the
```

>   - The look and feel of the web site in "theme based". We choose the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The look and feel of the web site is "theme based". We chose
```

    [Minimal Mistakes](https://mmistakes.github.io/minimal-mistakes/) with some

>     [customization](https://github.com/root-project/minimal-mistakes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    [customizations](https://github.com/root-project/minimal-mistakes).
```

>   - Because the generated site is static, it's much easier to embed ROOT specific tools like

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Because the generated site is static, it's much easier to embed ROOT-specific tools like
```

Reviewer 2: still relevant!

>     JSROOT output and therefore have interactive interaction on the plots.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    JSROOT output and therefore have mouse interaction on the plots.
```

>     JSROOT output and therefore have interactive interaction on the plots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    JSROOT output and therefore have interactive plots.
```

> On the contain side we kept the all main items which made the past ROOT web site so successful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the content side we kept all main items which made the past ROOT web site so successful.
```

> On the contain side we kept the all main items which made the past ROOT web site so successful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the content side we kept the all main items which made the past ROOT web site so successful.
```

> On the contain side we kept the all main items which made the past ROOT web site so successful.
> The "Forum & Help", The "ROOT Reference Guide", etc ... 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the content side we kept the all main items which made the past ROOT web site so successful, such as
"Forum & Help" or the "ROOT Reference Guide".
```

The main new entries are:

>    - "Manual": It provides detailed information about the use and applications of ROOT. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - [Manual](https://root.cern/manual): It provides detailed information about the use and applications of ROOT. 
```

     It contains many, often interactive examples, so that you can immediately
     start interacting with ROOT.

>    - "Install": an equivalent entry already existed in the previous site, but this one has

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - [Install](https://root.cern/install): an equivalent entry already existed in the previous site, but this one has
```

>      been completly re-designed in a more modern way to facilitate the ROOT installation 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     been completely redesigned in a more modern way to facilitate ROOT installation 
```

     on all possible platforms. 

> The ROOT team hope you will enjoy the new ROOT web site ! Do not hesitate to give

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ROOT team hopes you will enjoy the new ROOT web site! Do not hesitate to give
```

> The ROOT team hope you will enjoy the new ROOT web site ! Do not hesitate to give

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ROOT team hopes you will enjoy the new ROOT web site! Do not hesitate to give
```

> feedback on it either via the forum or by creating Pull Requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
feedback on it either via the [forum](https://root-forum.cern.ch) or by creating [Pull Requests](https://github.com/root-project/web/pulls).
```

> feedback on it either via the forum or by creating Pull Requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
feedback on it either via the [forum](https://root-forum.cern.ch), by creating an [Issue](https://github.com/root-project/web/issues/new), or better yet by creating [Pull Requests](https://github.com/root-project/web/compare).
```

    on it as one would do for code. It makes changes much easier!
  - The look and feel of the web site is "theme based". We chose the
    [Minimal Mistakes](https://mmistakes.github.io/minimal-mistakes/) with some
    [customization](https://github.com/root-project/minimal-mistakes).
  - Because the generated site is static, it's much easier to embed ROOT specific tools like
    JSROOT output and therefore have mouse interaction on the plots.

On the contain side we kept the all main items which made the past ROOT web site so successful.
The "Forum & Help", The "ROOT Reference Guide", etc ... 
The main new entries are:

   - [Manual](https://root.cern/manual): It provides detailed information about the use and 
     applications of ROOT. It contains many, often interactive examples, so that you can immediately
     start interacting with ROOT.
   - [Install](https://root.cern/install): an equivalent entry already existed in the previous site, ibut this one has
     been completly re-designed in a more modern way to facilitate the ROOT installation 
     on all possible platforms. 

The ROOT team hope you will enjoy the new ROOT web site! Do not hesitate to give

> eedback on it either via the [forum](https://root-forum.cern.ch) or by creating 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
feedback on it either via the [forum](https://root-forum.cern.ch) or by creating 
```

---
title:  "New ROOT Web Site!"
layout: archive
author: Olivier Couet
---

If you are reading this blog post it means you are surfing on the New ROOT Web Site!

This new web site is a complete redesign, both from the content point of view and on

> the technology used to build it.

Reviewer 2: `both from the content point of view and on the technology used to build it` -> `in terms of content as well as the technology behind it`

We are now using [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com) to generate static web pages.
Jekyll was created by Tom Preston-Werner, one of the GitHub's founder, it is distributed 
under the open-source MIT license. The main advantages are:

  - We can version-control our web pages; the workflow is very similar
    to that of ROOT's source, making it ideal for the ROOT team. For instance, ROOT users
    and developers can make Pull Requests on it as one would do for code. 
    It makes changes much easier!
  - The look and feel of the web site is "theme-based". We chose
    [Minimal Mistakes](https://mmistakes.github.io/minimal-mistakes/) with some
    [customizations](https://github.com/root-project/minimal-mistakes).
  - Because the generated site is static, it's much easier to embed ROOT specific tools like
    [JSROOT output]({{'manual/graphics#drawing-objects' | relative_url }}) and therefore have interactive plots.

> On the content side, we kept the all main items which made the past ROOT web site so successful,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the content side, we kept all the main items which made the past ROOT web site so successful,
```

Found another typo by running on https://grammarly.com as per my suggestion...

such as "Forum & Help" or the "ROOT Reference Guide". 
The main new entries are:

>    - [Manual]({{'manual' | relative_url }}): It provides detailed information about the use and 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - [Manual]({{'manual' | relative_url }}): it provides detailed information about the use and 
```

     applications of ROOT. It contains many, often interactive examples, so that you can immediately
     start interacting with ROOT.
   - [Install](https://root.cern/install): an equivalent entry already existed in the previous site, but 

>      this one has been completly re-designed in a more modern way to facilitate the ROOT installation 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     this one has been completely re-designed in a more modern way to facilitate the ROOT installation 
```

i'm not a very good spell-checker, please use https://www.grammarly.com/ instead :D
